Friends, in this video we will have a
complete discussion on health insurance policy
and will also
discuss the question that which is the best company in today's date from
where we should
purchase a health insurance policy for ourselves.
Now the question is
which is the best health insurance company?
Before coming to this question, I
should know what is health insurance basically
?  Now no matter how long the length of this video
becomes, but in this video,
we will
discuss all the questions related to health insurance and all the things that you should know.  This video has been
designed in such a way that first of all
we will see
what is an individual policy and
what is the difference between a family floater.  Apart from this, a
big problem that exists
in health insurance policies today is that
people blindly do
not have the knowledge.  Suppose there is a customer of any person and
he has an account in Axis Bank.
ok sir?  He goes to Axis Bank
and suppose he had some
other work at Axis Bank.  Was.  Suppose a cheque book had to be issued
or there was any other work.  There was
work related to current account.  Suppose he
went to the bank branch.  There, some
health insurance policy is unnecessarily
pasted on him.  Let's assume you are
also sticking to the insurance policy.  I wouldn't call it sticking.
Health insurance
is our need.  But what mistakes do the bankers make
?  We will not give him retail policy.   We will give
him a group policy.  This
group health insurance policy is of
no use to us.  Did you understand the
matter?  This is good for those who are
above 60-65 years of age.  For those people for whom the health
insurance companies are not issuing policies, it is
better to
take a group health insurance policy.
I see that the bank people are
also forcing a group health insurance policy on some young person to meet
their targets.
So this is a very basic difference that what is the difference between G
retail policy and group health insurance
policy?  Look,
you can take the policy from anywhere, take it from your
acquaintance, take it from the bank, take it online, it doesn't matter.
But we have to
take a retail policy.  Then we will
see a little difference between them.  Well,
apart from this, there are many other things like
what is no claim bonus?
What are restoration benefits?  Whatever things will be made one by one and
related to health insurance, we will understand them all first.  Then we will
come to your question that
which is the best company for health insurance today
?  Now let's start the video
with the basics.  Ok?  I will walk very comfortably.
No matter how
long the video is.  ok sir?  Look, the first
question is a very basic one,
what is health insurance?  Okay, health
insurance simply means that let us suppose
we have purchased a health insurance plan from ICICI LBD.
You
can take anyone's example.  I am
taking an example.  Ok?  So
we purchased a health insurance plan from ICICI LBA.
ok sir?  Suppose I say
I purchased my health policy let us suppose for
₹50 lakh.  I mean my sum
insured is ₹50 lakh.  Ok?
Against that, say once every year, some people pay the
premium once a year.  Some
people pay a premium every month.  Ok
?  Let us assume that its annual premium is
₹30,000, so in a year I will pay ₹00
from ICI to LBA.  In return, Lombard from ICI will
provide me health insurance protection up to ₹50 lakh.   That's
right.  Now suppose
I purchase this policy on 1 January 2025.  Now I
purchased it from anywhere.  ok sir?
Purchase on January 1, 2025.  Now any
health insurance policy says that
for the first 30 days, if, suppose,
anything related to health happens within the first 30 days of purchasing the policy,
someone gets a heart
attack, someone gets a kidney problem.
God forbid, if anyone faces any medical
problem, you will not get even ₹1.
You will not get a claim of even ₹1.
Because the insurance company clearly says that for the
first 30 days because it is possible that
someone deliberately, let's say the company
says that suppose someone is already suffering from
kidney related problem and let's say the
doctor suggested him that
we will do the operation after 20 days and during
that time, let's say he lied to you that
I am fit and fine and took a health insurance
policy and after that, after 10-15 days,
when the date of operation came, he went to the hospital and
lay down and said that the company will pay the claim.
That is why all the health insurance companies
say that
if you face any problem in the first 30 days after taking the policy, then you will
not
get any claim.  Yes, but after taking the policy within the first 30 days,
if
God forbid someone meets with an accident, then
in that case he will get a claim because he is not
sitting there thinking that I have taken the policy today and
tomorrow I will go ahead and follow the truck.  Did you
understand?  So,
if anything related to the accident happens within the first 30 days, you will
get a claim.  If
anything related to health happens, no claim will be made.
Now when we are purchasing the policy,
suppose on 1st January 2025, when we are
purchasing the policy, then before that, suppose
now we are taking a policy from ICIC LB, then the
team of ICIC LBD will telecall us, that is, will
call us and ask whether you have any
pre-existing disease, if suppose your
blood pressure remains high, you are taking BP medicine,
many people think that no,
no friend, there is BP medicine, who
knows what, sometimes I take it, sometimes I don't, do
n't lie, whatever the problem is, even if it is
minor, it is fine if you have undergone some surgery in the past
which has no relation today.
Today you feel absolutely fit and fine,
you will tell me that too.  You will
not hide anything from your insurance company.
Because what is reason?  What many people do is
that suppose someone has BP sugar which
is common in India.  Now the blood pressure is
such that there are many people who take the pill today and do
not take it for four days tomorrow and then the blood pressure increases.
Then we will take it.  People often do this.
So they think that I am not a
BP patient.  Leave it, if I don't tell him then
who will he find out?  But
God forbid, tomorrow such a patient
develops some heart-related problem and the
doctor mentions that the BP is there for the
last four years,
since 2021.  He writes something like this.  ok
sir?  Now a heart related problem arose.
Suppose your bill comes to ₹25 lakh.  You got admitted and
everything was done.  So in that case you will
not get a claim of even ₹1.  Because you had
BP problem.  There the doctor
mentioned it and he caught the person who was going to
pass the claim.  So what I mean to say is that
you hid a small thing and you will not
get the claim.  Then what was the benefit?  Suppose I
also took a policy of ₹50 lakh.  Every year I am paying ₹00
premium and
ultimately I do not get any claim.  So the bottom line is
if you are a smoker then you are a smoker.  If you
drink alcohol, you drink it.  You drink it occasionally.  Are
you understanding the matter?  Do
n't tell me what you drink occasionally.  Either you drink
or you don't drink.  ok sir?  If you
are a smoker or an occasional smoker, nothing matters, either you
smoke or you don't,
you don't have to hide anything related to your health.
Ok?  So this is a rough
story.  Ok?  That you will
not get any claim for the first 30 days.  Well then let us assume that there is
one more thing that when we are taking the policy, then
suppose someone says that let us suppose I have a
kidney related problem, that there can be
any kidney related problem.
While taking the policy, he admitted this thing
and suppose ICC Lombard
also gave him the policy.  ok sir.  So
he already had kidney related
problems.  If there was a problem before taking the policy, then it is
called pre-
existing disease.  That means
he already has kidney related disease before taking the policy.
So, for pre-existing diseases,
every company keeps a waiting
period for it.  Ok?  Some companies say
3 years, some companies say 4 years
, some companies say 2 years.  ok
sir?  So now let us suppose Lombard from ICI
says that our waiting period will be 4
years for any pre-existing
disease.  Now assume that I am just
taking this as an example.  Ok?  It is not that
she gives only 4 years.  I am just explaining by taking an example.
So suppose if someone has a
kidney related problem and the
waiting period for pre-existing disease is 4 years,
then today we have taken the policy in 2025, then it
is fine till 2029, till 1st January 2029, if he faces
any kidney related problem, then he will
not get any claim money, yes if he
faces a heart related problem, then he will
get the claim money, after 2029 the
waiting period will be over, then whether the
problem is related to kidney or any other
problem, then he will
get the claim, if you mention pre-existing disease, then
your premium will increase a little.
Suppose the premium for a normal fit person was ₹00.
So in this case, if there is a kidney
related problem then maybe
he may charge a premium of Rs 45,000 or Rs 400.
It depends on what your health
condition is.  So the premium will increase a little
but yes you will be on a safer side.
So now you should understand the basic structure of
what your policy is.  Now after that let
us understand how different policies exist
?  Look, there are two types of policies.
One is an individual policy.  ok sir?
And one is family floater.  Now suppose
I take my example.
I have purchased policies for everyone in my family in a similar way.
Ok?
Like now I am 31 years old.  My wife is
30 years old and my daughter is 4 years old.
So we have created our own family floater.
ok sir.  All three of us are
under the same policy.  And the total coverage we have taken for this entire group is
₹50 lakh.
ok sir.  What are the benefits of a good family floater
?  That the premiums become a little cheaper.
Look, suppose I have
taken Rs 50 lakh for all three.  Let us suppose I would have
taken separate policies of Rs 15 lakh each for all three.  Bha would have taken his own policy of ₹15 lakh separately.   He would have
taken a separate policy for his wife and a separate policy of Rs 15 lakh for his daughter.  Even then my
total would have been around ₹45 lakh.  But its
premium would be expensive.  Now since I have
formed a group under family floater
and taken this policy of ₹50 lakh, then
relatively my premium amount is proving to be
cheaper for me.  So now
who is a family floater good for?  When you
form a group of young people where the
chances of getting a disease are almost nil, then
family floater is good for them.  Is
my father okay now?  My father and my mother have
taken a separate policy of ₹25 lakh and a separate policy of ₹25 lakh for each.  Ok?  This
individual policy has been taken in his name.
I did not create any family floater for them.
Now a question arises that why did you not create a family floater by combining your father,
mother, myself, my wife and my daughter
?  You could have created a family floater of Rs 1 crore.
Look, when you
make a family floater, what
is the total premium of the family floater, okay?
How much money will you give to the company every year?  It will
depend only on the eldest member of that group
who is the oldest
member, like in this case it will be my father.
Ok?  So the premium of the entire group will depend on what is my father's age
and what is his health condition.  Did you
understand the matter?  So if I
add my father and mother also, then my
father's age is 65 years.  My age is 31 now.
So the premium cost in my group is based on the
age of 31.  And
if I add my father, the
premium for all five people will be based on the age of 65.  So that will
ultimately cost me dearly.
Ok?  Well, now a question arises
that why was a group of father and mother not
created?  Look, now the reason is that if you suppose
I had made a group of them.  Now fathers and mothers are reaching
an age where the
probability of you getting the disease increases.
Ok?  Inside Old Age.  So if
I make a group of these.  Ok?  Suppose
I create a group of ₹50 lakh.  God
forbid if I ever need both of them, then to
avoid taking that risk,
I used them separately.  Did you understand the matter?  So you could have made it like that.
I could have made a group of father and mother.  There
is no problem in that.  But suppose there is a need for it together then there could be a
problem in that case.
Ok?  So now we have understood
individual policy and family floater.
Well, one more thing comes into question.  Like
now I am the only one in my group.
ok sir?  One became my wife.  I am 31 years old.  I have a
30 year old wife and a four
year old daughter.  Ok?  Now my daughter
is dependent on me.  Ok?  Now
I could also take a separate policy for my daughter.  However,
if someone wants to
take a policy, his minimum age should be 91 days.
Ok?  I am telling you one thing just like that.  Now
here I added my daughter to the group.
So how long can my daughter stay in my group
?  As long as he
is dependent on me.  You can stay in my group only till then.  This
means that the child can remain in your group as
long as he is dependent on you.
Ok?  Well, when she turns 25.
Often most companies keep the age limit at 25 only.
Some companies also keep 18.  So
when she turns 25,
she will exit from here and this family floater will
remain with me and my wife and an
individual policy will be issued for our daughter.
So this is the history that you have
not made any claims continuously.  All these
benefits are also transferred to the individual policy.
Ok?  So this is the
question of many people whether they are
in family floater.  Suppose tomorrow you
keep your daughter in a family floater.  Menly
boys are not asked that much.   It is
asked for girls.  Suppose tomorrow,
when you marry Gudiya at the age of 26-27,
then in that case, she will go to her home to
her husband.  ok
sir?  So in that case some
policy will continue with you.  No, you
can get it exited anytime after 18 years and
can keep it with you in the group for a maximum of 25 years.  Ok?  So when he
understands that he will be above 18 years of age, then he can
exit.  Then it will
become an individual policy.  Then tomorrow when she gets married,
suppose she and her husband want to
make a group policy,
want to make a floater policy, don't call it group, just
call it floater, the group policy is separate, so
if they want to make a floater policy, they can
make a floater policy together,
now you come forward, this is the most important thing,
retail policy and group policy, I
said group two-three times earlier,
don't call it group, just call it floater, floater
means three people together, group policy
is completely different, we don't want to take a group policy,
we can take a floater, don't get confused, the
meaning of family floater is that
I, my wife and my girl have made a floater.
Ok?  What is meant by group policy
?  For example, suppose you
work in a corporate company.  Isn't it?  So your
company also gives you health insurance policy.
Suppose 100 people work in that corporate company.
So, let's say you can take it from
any health
insurance company, let's say from Neevapa itself.
Suppose there is NIBP health insurance.   With that,
this corporate company
purchased a group policy for 100 people.  That's right.
Now there is no waiting period for this group policy.
Brother, if someone falls
ill tomorrow, he also gets the claim.
Ok?  But now accept that this policy is going on
, going on, going on.  Now suppose
this policy continues for 10 years.  ok sir?
Suppose your corporate company closes down after 10 years.
Or suppose the
tie up between your corporate company and Neeva BPA ends.
Then you cannot say about this policy
that I want to port this policy and
shift it to Aditya Birla.
So that portability is not allowed
within the group policy.  Suppose you
run this policy for 10 years.  Ok?  Whatever
premium you paid, some company paid the premium and
you ran it for 10 years.  His no claim
bonus is not transferred here.
So as long as it is running here, it is running.
Well, for corporates, it's a different
story.  What happens many times is that let's say I
take an example.  I am
not naming any bank.  I am just explaining with an example.
Bank means I am just
taking an example.  Suppose there is Axis Bank.
Axis Bank has a tie up with Aitya B Birla.
ok sir.  With Aditya Birla,
you as a customer directly go to the Aitya B Birla
website.  You go to Aditya Birla's
office and
purchase the policy directly from Aditya Birla saying
that I want a retail policy.  Ok?
And by the way, he will give you only retail policy.
So he will give you retail policy.  That's
it.  Ok?  That the policy was issued in your name only.
So let's say you ran the retail policy for 10
years.  You continue to get no claim bonus.   Isn't it
?  All those benefits are there, suppose
after 10 years you say that
I will transfer my policy from Aditya Birla to Tata, then
you can easily port this policy
but you go to Axis Bank and
Axis Bank has a tie up with Aditya Birla.
Now look at what the bank employees do,
even the customers do not have that much knowledge.  The
customer goes and makes a fuss saying,
no no friend, the premium is not that high.  The
other company has a lower premium.
Your premium is high.  It is like this, it is like that.
So the bank person says, take it son, if you
want less premium then he gives you a group policy.
B Low Premium No one's
premium is less than ours.  You also become happy
because you don't have knowledge.  What is there in the group policy is
that the bank creates a group of
any number of customers, say for its 10,000 customers, 5,000 customers.
Ok
?  He will purchase a complete group policy from Aditya Birla.
Well, suppose you are
his customer, then he gave you that policy.
Gave it to another customer.  Gave it to the third one.  That
means that policy was given to thousands of customers.
Gave this group policy.  This is
not a retail policy but a group policy.  Now
what is the disadvantage of group policy is that
this tie up between Axis Bank and Aitya
Birla continues as long as it is in place.  But the day
this tie-up ended, this policy also became null
and void.  Then suppose you have been running this policy for
20 years.  Let's accept it.
Ok?  And you were fit and fine when you took the policy.
But within these 20 years
you also developed many health problems.
Now after 20 years your standing leg
policy has ended.  It will be null and void.  You
cannot even port this policy to another company.  Did you understand the matter?  Nor will
IRDA's DI work here.  So here
you will not be able to port to another company
because the other company will not take you
because now you are suffering from some disease or the other.
So this is where the challenge comes
in the group policy.  If we have a
retail policy, I can port it anywhere at any time.
My no claim
bonus, my restoration benefits, whatever it is, will
go with me when I port.  Well, now how do we know
which is a group policy and
which is a retail policy?  Look, this is my policy.  ICICI
is of LBD.  Ok?  See the proposal name here.
What is written in the proposal name?
Mr. Ankit Maddan.  Ok?  The rest is my
address.  Leave all these things aside.
So Ankit Maddan is written in the proposal name.
So this is a retail policy.  Suppose
you are taking a policy and in the proposal name, let us suppose I
purchased it directly from ICICI LBA.  But
suppose I go to ICICI Bank and
go to the ICICI Bank counter and say give me
a policy.  Now it
is obvious that ICICI Bank has a tie up with its own company ICICI LBD.
But suppose they had
issued a group policy to me, then the
proposal name would have been ICICI Bank.   Did you
understand the matter?  Ankit Madan is written here, so
if ICICI Bank was written
in the proposal name then it would have been a group
policy.  So from here you have to see.
Now you can take it from any platform.  Let
us suppose that you are going to Axis Bank
only.  Ok?  So I am not saying
that you should not take a policy from the bank.  You are an Axis
Bank customer.  You go to the bank.  They have a
tie up with A Aditya Birla.  You go and
tell him brother that I don't want to take a group policy.  If
I want to take a retail policy then there is no
problem.  They will also provide retail policy.
Only its premiums are a little higher.  The
bank people have gone away.  He has a
solution for everything.  You go and start making noise.  No no,
he is paying so little premium.  You are
giving so much.  He will say, take it son,
then take a group policy.  Ok?  How are you
going to know whether it is a group policy or not and
which policy it is.  You have thought about it,
I have taken health insurance today.  Ok
?  Why does this become necessary?  Let me give you a
live example of this.  I don't
remember it exactly.  When the merger happened, there used to be
Syndicate Bank earlier.
Ok?  When it was merged, the
syndic was my relative.  Syndicate Bank had a
tie up with an insurance company.
Ok?  So when he had been
running the policy for 20 years, for 20-25 years.  So
what happened?  When this merger happened, some of its tie-
ups ended.  With this the tie up ended.
So when the tie up ended, this
policy also became null and void.  When he
took the policy, he was fit and fine but
within 20 years he also developed brain
problems.  There was a lot of trouble.
Brain surgery was also done.  So now he is suffering from
many pre-existing diseases.
Now from here the policy stopped standing.
Now the other company will not accept that policy.  Did you
understand the matter?  So this is simple
logic.  If I am taking a retail policy.
Let us suppose I went directly to Aitya Birla,
that is, I went to Axis Bank
and took the policy from Aitya B Birla.
Ok?  Meaning, I
took the policy from Axis Bank only.  But it was taken by saying that a
retail policy is needed.  And I got
Aditya Birla's policy.  So now
in this condition, there is no fear that
if my tie-up with Axis Bank ends,
my policy will end.  Look, it
is very easy to end a tie up.  If
their relationship ever deteriorates, that tie-up will end.
But if there is a retail policy, it will
end only the day Aditya Birla closes down.  Did you
understand the matter?  The
probability of which is negligible.  Because
IRDAI will not allow this to happen.  Either
he will support it or he will get the shares of another company
invested in it.  It will not allow it to be closed
because it knows that then the
policies of lakhs of people will be closed.  That is why
try to
purchase directly from the insurance companies instead of going to the bank and
purchasing through the banks.  Ok?
Because then you will not have enough knowledge about something or the other and
then they will force you to stick a group policy.
And
what is the thing to look for in health insurance, what is the network hospital
?  Look, it's a simple thing.  We were just
looking at which is the best health insurance
?  Now we will
look at its parameters.  What are the things I need to consider to choose the best health insurance
?  For example, the health insurance company which has the maximum number of
network hospitals is
best for me.  Network hospital means the same
as care health insurance.
It has 16,500 network hospitals across the country.
Meaning, suppose I have
Care Health Insurance and God
forbid, if I face any problem, then
if I go to any of these 16,500 hospitals,
I will get a cashless claim.   It will
not happen that once a bill of ₹1 lakh
comes, it will not happen that you deposit ₹1 lakh
from your pocket and then raise the claim from that bill.  This will
not happen.  I have to go and
download my health insurance card from my app and give it to them.  You have to
give your Aadhar card.  That's
it.  I can get admitted.  My entire
claim will be passed cashless.  So the company which has the
maximum number of network hospitals is good for me.
But there is a catch in this too.
Now if I look at it this way, Care Health
Insurance has the maximum number of network
hospitals in the entire country.  But suppose
someone's house is in Delhi NCR, then he should
check which company has the
maximum network hospitals in Delhi NCR.  Did you understand the
matter?  Like if I care, look at this,
I have put a list above of
how many of them there are across the country.  Below I have
put a list of
how many network hospitals each company has in Delhi NCR.
Now, there are maximum number of CARE patients in the entire country.
But there are only 650 within Delhi NCR.
More than this, Star
Health has 900 rupees.  Then,
suppose this is Aitya Birla's 820.  Did you understand the
matter?  So also see
which company has the most customers in the city where you live.
Because the probability is that
if something happens then you will be
admitted in your city.  Ok?  So check this thing as well
and also see in which
hospital your I mean family doctor sits.  Like, I understood the matter.
Which hospital do you prefer, is it there all the
time or not?  So the complete list comes
when you check the policy, the complete
list of network hospitals comes.
You can check from there.  Well, after this, now
one thing comes that what are pre and post
hospitalization expenses?
Look, first let's understand and then we will see.  For example,
suppose we were taking an example of
someone having kidney problem and he needs to undergo
some surgery.  Let's assume it is not possible that
he felt some pain.   He
went to the hospital and the doctor said come back tomorrow and lie down.  We will
operate on you.   There
is some minor problem.  It is obvious that he must have been taking
some medicine earlier
and must have been consulting a doctor.
Then the doctor must have said that the medicines are
not working.  Okay, we will have to do an operation.   It's a
simple thing.  So until the doctor
said that an operation would have to be done.  This means that the
medicines must have been taken for some time even before the day of the operation.  So
these medicines are called pre-
hospitalization expenses.  The expenses incurred before the day you were
hospitalized are
called pre-
hospitalization expenses.  And the
medicines will continue even after the day you are admitted.
After that, the cost of medicines is
called post-hospitalization
expense.  Now some companies say that
we will pay the bill for all the expenses incurred till 90 days before the day you got admitted and
after getting admitted, when you went home,
we will also pay the expenses for say 90 days after that.
So this is called pre-
hospitalization and post-hospitalization
expenses.  Now the company which will
give me maximum number of windows is good for me.
Ok?  Like for example care.
Care says we will
pay the pre-hospitalization expenses for 30 days and the
post-hospitalization expenses for 60 days.
This entire list has been
prepared according to approximate data.  For
example, ICICI says 60 days pre-
hospitalization and 180 days post-
hospitalization expenses.  So I have made this on an average
because ICICI is
not selling any single policy.  There are many policies.  Apart from this there
are many other policies also.  Now
in some policies it is said 60 days before and
180 days after.  In some it says 30
days before and 60 days after.  So
I have created this according to approximate data.
Whatever policy you take, check it to see
how much pre and post hospitalization expenses
you are getting.  Ok?  Okay, let me tell you this thing.
Then comes a little technical thing.
Many people say that you should check the claim settlement
ratio and the incurred claim ratio.
The higher the claim settlement ratio,
the better our health
insurance company is.  For example, suppose
a company receives a total of 100 claims
in a year and out of those, the company passes 99 claims.  The
company felt that a
claim was not correct and
rejected it.  So what is the claim settlement
ratio?  It's 99% done.  So
the higher the claim settlement ratio, the
better the company I would say it is because
I feel that yes, this company
passes the claims and does
not stop unnecessary claims.  So for example, Star Health has a
claim settlement ratio of 99.06%.  Similarly, the
care of health is less, it rejects 95% or 5% of the claims.
So I had a little
doubt.  Ok?  So by doing this you
can check the claim settlement ratio.
What is Incurred Claim Ratio? They
say that suppose a company
collected a total premium of ₹100 crore for a year
and out of that, suppose it spent ₹80 crore
in paying claims, apart from this there are
some expenses as well, if the company paid ₹80 crore in
claims, then what is its Incurred Claim
Ratio, 80%. Now in this case
I cannot say that the higher the
Incurred Claim Ratio, the better the
company is.  Why?  Because suppose if ₹100
crore claims were collected, that premium was
collected, out of which, suppose ₹99 crore was
spent by the company in paying the claims.
Now apart from this the company has other
expenses too.  The office is running, the printer
is running, there are salaries of the employees and other
expenses too.  And suppose the company spent ₹5 crore
on other expenses.  Then
this would be a dangerous company for me.  The
brothel can close at any time, so it is collecting premium.  If
its cost is ₹14 crores then the
company can close down any time.  Therefore, it is said
that the best range for the incurred claim ratio is from
60% to 75%.
The company whose incurred claim ratio is 60% to
75%.  Suppose it is 70%.  So suppose a
premium of ₹100 crore was collected out of which 70
crore claims were paid.  The remaining amount is Rs 30 crore.   Will
also make some profit.  There are some salaries,
office expenses, there are 100 types of expenses.   It will go into
that too.  So
somewhere I can say that the company is stable.   It will continue for a
long time.  I will protect my life, that is,
whatever health insurance I have will provide
protection.  But if it distributes so many claims then there is a
danger for me that the
company will close down tomorrow.  So
what is my benefit in running health insurance?  So these are the
things.  So check the range of the incurred claim ratio.  It is
between 60% to 75%.
So this ratio is considered good.  Ok
?  Okay, if till now you are finding this video
informative then please I request you to
like the video and subscribe to the channel
because you are not going to pay anything for this
but yes if you feel that
your knowledge has enhanced even a little bit then
please like the video and subscribe to the channel
and please leave any good positive
comment below, if you have any suggestion on
how we can improve the videos then
please do comment on that too,
okay, its next benefit is
maternity benefit, now see maternity
benefit if there is a male, okay, then
what is the benefit of taking it?  She does
not have to give birth to any child from her womb.  So
if there is a female, it is better for her only.  Now there are
some policies which have maternity
benefit.  So you cannot say
that if there is any mail then remove it.
Whatever is there is additional, we will not do anything with it.
Ok?  Well, now
if there is some maternity benefit for females, then there is some
waiting period for it.  Ok
?  What coverage is available under maternity benefit
?  Look, first of all, all the pre-delivery
expenses like
seeing the doctor, checkup, ultrasound,
medicines, doctor consultants, all these
expenses are covered.  Then
during delivery, whether it is a normal delivery or a C-section
delivery, everything is covered.
Post delivery expenses are also covered,
later medicines, regular checkups which
last for some time, say 15-20 days, have to be
shown.  Then, for a new born
baby,
if any problem arises in the first 90 days, God
forbid, then that too is covered.  And if
God forbid,
any complication arises during pregnancy, then all that is also
covered.  All this is
covered under maternity.  Now there are different companies,
I have put the list here.  Like
care is health.  They say that it lasts from 2
to 4 years.  There are different
policies, some for 2 years, some for 4
years.  They have a waiting period.  Ok?
Similarly, Neeva Bupa has 2 years, some have 3 years
, some have 3 years.  Now this is something
you have to look at.  Suppose there is a female.   Let
us suppose his age is 24 years.  Yes.  ok sir.
Or suppose someone's age is 23 years.
This female thought that I will get married when I turn 27.
If she gets married after 27 years, then it is obvious that she will have a baby at the age of 28 or 29.
So
he still has five or three years left.
So this waiting period can also be preferred to this one.
He is in no hurry.
But suppose someone is married
or is about to get married and his age is 26 years.
And she is getting married after 2-3 months this year, so it is
obvious that she will conceive a baby after one or two years.
Then he will have to
take some such policy like Niva Bupa type which has a
less waiting period,
like Aditya Birla, there is
only a waiting period of 9 months to one year, so you will have to see this thing, that is why
what I told you in the beginning of the video that which is the
best health insurance company,
I cannot tell you in one line
which one is the best for you, do you understand the point,
which one is the best for you, you will have to choose
what is your need, right,
if suppose someone is fit and fine, he
is fine and takes such a policy which is the
best, but in that policy the
waiting period for pre-existing disease is 5 years, then there is
no challenge for him.  He
is fit and fine.  He can even wait for 5 years.  But
suppose if someone has some problem like BP, high blood sugar, it is a
pre-existing
disease.  He is taking a policy
which has a waiting period of 5 years for pre-
existing diseases, so there can be no
worse decision than this for him.  However, no matter
how good the company is,
this is a stupid decision for them.
Which company would be best for that?  For that, the
best company would be the one whose waiting period is
one or two years.  Or if someone
is already ill then he can take a group health
insurance policy from the bank.  Ok?  The
only benefit of a group health insurance policy is that there is either
no waiting period or the
waiting period is only 6 months or one year.
This
becomes a plus point of group health insurance policy.  Or
group health insurance policy, suppose
someone's age is more than 60 years.
If you are directly going to any insurance company asking for a
retail policy, then they do
not issue new policies.  In such a case, if you
take a group health insurance policy,
then you get a group health insurance policy.
Ok?  If you are above 60 years of age then
these people get some advantage.
But if you are young and fit
then why should we take a group health insurance policy
?  We will just adopt the normal retail policy.
So these are all the things.  Well
then there are a few more things.  Like restoration
benefit, you have to look at this thing.  The
simple meaning of restoration benefit is that suppose
someone has a policy of ₹50 lakh.   He faced
some problem related to health insurance.
Suppose the kidney related
expenses come to ₹30 lakh.  Now suppose there is
another heart related disease and the
cost comes to ₹ lakh, then the company says that
now there are different diseases, so there is
no problem.  Now ₹ lakh has been spent.  Actually, there was Rs
20 lakh left but we will refill it and make it
Rs 1 lakh again.  Next time the
claim comes related to a different disease,
we will give the full amount of ₹30 lakh again.  So this is
called restore, that once the expense is incurred,
we automatically restore the sum insured for you.
But when did you restore it
?  When there are different diseases.  Some
companies say there is insurance of ₹50 lakh.
Kidney related expenses of ₹ lakh were incurred.
Again, an expense of Rs 30 lakh was incurred in the same year
related to kidney.  No problem.  Once
the cost is recovered, we will restore it and make it Rs 50
lakh.  There is no problem.
Restoration benefits will be
given even if the same disease occurs.  So this is called restoration benefit.
Now there are many conditions in this.
Some companies say that they will provide it for different diseases.
Some companies say they will provide it for the same
disease.  Some companies say that they will
provide restoration benefits only once in a lifetime.  So read your restoration
benefit when you take the policy.  Do
n't depend too much on these things
because these features are available today.  It can also be removed tomorrow.
Look, health insurance policy is
only a one year agreement.
Suppose today you are being given 10 features, then
after the completion of 1 year this policy
is redesigned.  It may be
designed with the same 10 features.  It is possible that
only five features may be added after completion of one year.
So you cannot say
that when I bought it, you had said that there are
10 features.  Now I have added five features.  So
all this will depend only on your company.  She may continue to
run the policy with one feature.  Why?
Because health insurance policy is only a
one year agreement with you.   Did you
understand the matter?  There is no lifetime agreement.  The
policy is redesigned after every year.
That is a different thing that there are
guidelines of IRDAI.
Policies are implemented under him.  So companies
cannot be so foolish.  But minor
changes are allowed.  Ok?  So
these changes are allowed here.  And
if we talk about restoration benefits, then these
things are meant to attract people
in today's date.  It doesn't matter whether it exists or not after 5-6 years.
Well, what do we have to do
?  If we want to keep ourselves safe,
we will have to take more base cover.
What if we have many people?  We will
take only base cover of ₹5 lakh.  On top of that, you can take a
top-up or super top-up of
₹50 lakh.  Did you understand the matter?  Why?
Because this top-up
or super top-up is very cheap.  Your policy is only for Rs 5 lakh.
Now the entire policy has become very cheap.
But these top-ups and super top-ups are there today,
but after 5 years they may either not exist or may be removed
or their premiums may also be increased very high.
We cannot say anything about this.  What is
better than this is that all these
cycles are providing restoration benefits or
not.  Leave it.  Top up super
top up is available very cheaply so take it
otherwise do not depend on it.  What do you have to do
?  First of all, you should
see according to your lifestyle that if
you go to a hospital, you think that the
work will be done in Rs 5 lakh or your pocket allows it.
First thing is
not to go above the pocket.  You think a claim of Rs 5 lakh is enough for me.  There
is a lot.  But you
think that I definitely need health insurance of ₹50 lakh.
But
what do I do?  I will take the base plan of Rs 5 lakh.
Along with this, I take a top-up or
super top-up of ₹45 lakh.  No, it is a very wrong
decision.  We have to take the base plan of ₹50 lakh only.  It would be
better if you do not get into the hassle of this top-up super top-up.  If it is
available very cheap then take it, but if you
need Rs 50 lakh then we will take the base plan of Rs 50 lakh only.
ok sir?  So you have to keep this thing in
mind because only this base plan will
work with you and other things will not work with you.
Ok?  Now I will
also explain to you the top up super top up.  Apart from this there is a
cope close.  This means
that you will pay 20% of the money and the insurance
company will pay the remaining amount if you fall ill.  So this should
not be taken.  Like the no claim bonus
in cars, 10%, suppose someone has a
policy of Rs 50 lakh.  If there is no claim, the
sum insured will automatically be ₹55 lakh next year.
So you got 10% no claim
bonus.  Ok?  Rest
you have the option whether to cover these OPDs or not.
Ok?  So you can do this.  These are
basic things.  Look, this is what top up and
super top up are.  Like in this example
we have taken that the base policy is of Rs 5 lakh.
Plus either took a top-up of ₹1 lakh or a
super top-up of ₹20 lakh.  Top-up is
not of much use.  If you have to buy it
then buy Super Topup only.  Look, let me
explain the top-up first.  Suppose there
is a policy of Rs 5 lakh.  If someone falls ill and the
expenses amount to Rs 3 lakh, then it is okay.  Here, out of the
base policy of Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh will be used.
₹ lakh is now left with us in the base policy.
Plus there is a top-up of ₹20 lakh.  Then
again this year that guy fell ill again
and the expenses amounted to ₹4 lakh.  Now because the
expense of ₹4 lakh that has come again is
less than the base cover.  Ok?  So you will
not be able to use your top up.  So ₹
lakh will be deducted from your base plan and
you will have to pay ₹ lakh from your pocket.  Ok
?  When does the top-up work?  The top-up will be activated when your single
claim exceeds ₹5 lakh.
Before that the top-up will
not be activated.  If this second
claim had been for ₹1 lakh instead of ₹4 lakh,
then the ₹1 lakh that was left with you would have been used
and the ₹4 lakh would have been used from the top-up.
Super Topup will always be active.
Super Topup will be activated when your base plan expires.
Like there was a base plan of ₹5 lakh
, there was a super topup of ₹20 lakh.
Ok?  So if the first expenditure is ₹3 lakh, it will be
spent from the base plan.  ₹3
lakh.  ₹ lakh saved in base plan and ₹ 20
lakh saved in super topup.  If the expenditure again
comes to ₹4 lakh, then ₹2 lakh will be spent from the base plan.
₹2 lakh will now be
spent from the Super Topup.  So ₹18 lakh will be saved here.
So if you have to take it then take super top up.  There is
no benefit in taking top up.
Well, all these things are almost over.
And there is one more thing.  I will tell you quickly.  Suppose
if you are raising a claim for someone, then
how do you raise the claim?  Like right now my
mother had a policy, she had an eye
operation, it was a small cataract, so the
bill was almost around Rs 43000, so what you have to do is
take all the hospital copies, take photos of all the bills, okay, you
took photos of all these, then similarly take
photos of these, take photos of all the bills
made in the hospital, okay,
take photos of all the reports etc. Apart from this,
I don't have those papers, apart from this,
go to the reception of the hospital and
tell them that I want to raise a claim, they
give you a form, okay, you have to fill that form.  The
doctor signs that form for you.  The doctor who did it
all.  Ok?  Whatever
is fine?  Wherever you are admitted, he will sign it.  The
hospital stamp will be affixed.  There is one
more photo of him.  Ok?  All these
bills are his photo.  Ok?  After doing all this you will
take this photo.  Like now the policy that mother had was
also of ICICI Lombard.
Look, I am not promoting anyone here.
My policy is ICICI. I had
also taken the first example of ICICI Lombard.
Many people comment that no, you
took money from ICICI.  There is nothing like that brother.
I am not promoting anything.  Take whatever you want.
Wherever it is cheaper for you.  What did I
say in the beginning?  When comments come, it
hurts my heart.  Even after making so many genuine videos, they
still comment
on ICS.  There is nothing like that brother.
What did I say in the beginning?  It
depends on you what your need is.  Isn't it
?  If someone has a problem then he
will see the waiting period.  If someone is fit and
fine, then even if he gets a longer waiting period, it will be fine.
So I started
making some completely neutral videos.  From wherever you feel is right.
You will take the policy from there as per your need.   There is nothing like that
from here.  Ok?
Okay, then how is the claim raised?
Like this is their application by taking care of IL.
Ok?  If you
go for insurance, you will get the option of raise claim.  If
you click on Race Claim, the entire policy will open.
Ok?  For example, if there
was a policy of ₹25 lakh for ₹31,50,000, then after taking the no claim bonus, the
sum insured has now reached ₹31,50,000.
Here we will click on Race Claim again.
Then these basic details have to be filled.
Like, I have taken the policy in my name and it is my
mother's policy.  But I make the payment.
Ok?  So that's why my
mobile number and all these details are being shown here.  You
will enter your email ID, address, etc. here.  Which expense is it?  There is pre and
post hospitalization.  No, he was
admitted to the hospital.  No, single day is gone
because after going there it becomes same day.
Ok?  It is a small surgery that takes 20 minutes.
So this will come under OPD.  Then
hospital name, pin code, state, city,
date of admission, date of discharge.  Ok?
When were you admitted and when were you discharged?
What is the basic amount and claim amount?  As soon as it reaches
₹43,000, they will deposit it.  ok sir?
Then you will enter all these details like bank account number,
IFSC code, the bank account in which you
want to receive the money, your PAN card, all these
details.  Then we will upload all the documents here.
Whatever photo you took, whatever
payment receipt there was, we will upload it.
A photo of a cancelled cheque has to be uploaded
in the account in which the money is required.  Ok
?  Then the final bill of the hospital will be uploaded.  If there are
any medicine bills, I will
upload them.  I will do everything and proceed further.  You will get a
notification on WhatsApp that
I have basically blurred your claim number.
Ok?  So this
claim number has been raised for you.
You will get your claim within 8 days.
Ok?  There is one more thing.  Now the question arises
where to compare the policy?  Ok?
Look, there is a platform called Policy Bazaar,
you can check it from here.  Let me
explain it to you a little bit.  I have given this policy link
in the description for
comparison.  Rest, you can take it from wherever you want.
Now as soon as we
come to the Policy Bazaar site,
we will go to Health Insurance.  This is just
me teaching you how to apply a filter.
Ok?  Whether you take it from here or not doesn't matter.  Ok
?  You have to take it yourself from wherever you want.   There is
someone you know, you
can get it from there.  Ok?  At least you
can compare it from here.  Ok?
Which policy do you need,
I will tell you once.  Ok?  For example, suppose I
entered my details here.  Ok?
After entering all these details.  Ok
?  One second.  Like he is asking himself.
Ok?  I want to take it for myself.  One
second.  I want to take this for myself.
Put the edge.  Like I put 31 years.  I put the whistle on.
ok sir.  Then entered the name and mobile number.
Ok.  It will process it.  He is asking if there is
any medical history.  If yes then
select it, otherwise select none of these.
Then came all these different policies
that it offers, a lot of them.  Ok?   There are
policies.  What should I do now?   Have to
apply the flap.  You have to go to the filter section.
You just have to apply these filters one by one.
Then the best policy will come for you.
So try applying these filters and see
which one is best for you.  Then it is
your choice from where you want to buy it.  You should see that.
Ok?  So from here I did the by
relevance inside the sort by.  Ok?  The cover is
asking how much to take?  For example, let's say
I want to buy between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 24 lakh.  If you
want room rent capping then do no
room rent capping.  Ok?  I do
n't want any nagging later that
you had this room.  You had a room with three sharing it.
You are staying in a single room.  So
we will also include no room rent capping in the policy.
Ok?
All these benefits should be included in the policy benefits.  I
also need pre-hospitalization expenses.  I
also need a post.  Day care OPD benefit is also
required.  Suppose I will take the no claim bonus also.  If you
want to take restoration benefit, you can take it.
Ok?  No one gets free health checkup done.  If
you want to take it, you can take it.
No need for Doctor Consultations & Pharma Free. Ok? Then
premiums asking how much do you want
?  We will not go after premium.
We need a good health insurance policy.
So I put no preference here.
Ok?  I
need a new plan for portability.  I am
not porting existing plans.  Ok?  Maternity cover is
not a preference.  Maybe someone is
taking the mail.  Suppose someone is about to get married then
he can select two years.  Did you
understand the matter?  So right now we are
not selecting any preferences.  Did you understand that he is
asking about the waiting period
for maternity benefits?  Ok?  Well, the
waiting period for existing disease is the same
thing.  I am selecting no preference.
Because if you are fit and fine
then there is no problem.  Does it matter
how much waiting period you get for pre-
existing diseases?  But if someone
is sick then he should select one year.  Ok?
So is it okay to apply all these filters?  Then
it is asking about the policy period, for how many years will
you pay the money?  So you should select only one year.
Like it is saying that if you
pay the money in lump sum for 5 years, you will save 16%
on the premium.  Doesn't matter.  You should
select only one year.  Ok?  It is insured, there is no
problem, let's do all that, okay, I have given no
preference for maternity cover, so
after doing this and filtering, I will
put these results, then different
premiums have come here, like this policy
is showing a charge of ₹519 per month,
okay, its fee is like this, its
sum insured is ₹543,
like Smart Health Pro has a
fee of ₹578, so you can do all these things from here, here there
is also an option to add to compare, for example, if you have this policy
and Star policy, then you
want to compare them, then you can also compare them here.  If you
compare them, you will see all their features.
Ok?  Each of these features,
like the one I just explained to you, copay
pre-hospitalization, post-
hospitalization, you
can compare all the things by doing this.  Ok?  If you assume
that I am just telling you the basics so that
you can understand a little about how the policy works.
Because even if I
take it from someone I know, they too resort to robbing me around the house.  For
a second I feel like
this laptop will shut down.
No, okay, okay.  Now let's suppose I have
this smart health pro,
wait a second, let me tell you.  Ok
?  He made this decision.  Ok?
Suppose if I want to purchase a Care policy then I will
click on this.  Let's say the sum insured is Rs
10 lakh, he is showing it to me.
Ok?  So this is the premium for 1 year.  I will give it
together for 2 years.
For 3 years, for 4 years, for 5 years, so much so.
So we will fill for one year.
No need to fill it together.
Ok?  If you want to take only writers then you
can add them.  Ok?  Then it
is recommending Super Topup.
You can leave all these things to him.  Ok?  If you want to take it,
you can take it.  Suppose you are
facing some challenge in these cases then you
can also talk to their advisor.  Ok?
Rest, if you proceed from here then easily
you just have to make the bill payment from this policy.  So it is that
easy.
I just told you this superficially.   Well, the rest is
your choice.
You will purchase the policy from wherever you want to purchase it.
Apart from this, many people
ask me which is the best zero balance
savings account?  Which we
can open online sitting at home.  So for this
you can open a zero balance savings account of Kotak Mahindra Bank.  That
means there are no
charges for this.
Your zero balance savings account is opened instantly.
Basically two types of accounts are
opened there.  A Classic account is opened and
a Super account is opened.  Both
are zero balance savings accounts.  There
is just a slight difference between them.  If you want to open a
zero balance savings account in Kotak Mahindra Bank, then a
proper video has been made in
which the difference between these two has been explained well.
You can watch this video.  I will give you the link to this video
in the description.
Watch that video easily.  If you are interested, you
can watch the video and
also open that account online sitting at home.   See
you in the next video.